This is a document which has been written as a functional exemplar of a new way of writing. 

It is free, open, and public. It is this way because this is and has always been the best way of producing all work; much as Wikipedia was the new way of producing an encyclopaedia.

This new writing is free in every useful sense:
Costing nothing to view or edit, provided to everyone, free of licensing or intellectual property restrictions.
Open and public so it is publicly viewable and editable by everyone.
Transparent and verifiable so its revision system transparently stores everyone's contributions (see Google Drive's version system or Git).
The new writing is almost alive, treating all work as a continuous project everyone can participate in however they wish. Using version systems everyone can take part in the creative process from whatever point in time they like, and actually witness the growth of work created this way by letting the system  help visualise any work's overall structure and growth.

To prove the new writing a more efficient use of technology than any which precede it, I present a book espousing the ideals I outline above. Now read on as I co-opt this thread on how to publish work by posting a link directly to this example: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1x0qOiBfyaHgoRA1B9ozj9R6JkRt7iUfzBQev-nh09A4/edit
See what was done there?

If you do, you too may realise such efforts are grasps at the intangible. Regardless, it invites and enjoys participation. If you want your work to be understood and enjoyed as much as possible for as long as possible, it is best to use the most advanced publication methods available. Publishing work this way invites greater longevity because if your work is more widely read, understood, and lovingly reproduced--you can reasonably expect it will have greater more lasting impact.

New, highly collaborative documents which are interesting, inspiring, and free? By making the story within engaging, self-consistent, and robust enough to be useful to everyone? That sounds so complicated you’d need to read it as deeply as you’d read a science textbook to understand! People are scared and/or bored by things they don’t understand; move on--this will not get me laid! Documents which purport to fulfill any function usually are either too deep to readily comprehend, or too informationally dense for more than some parts to be useful to everyone, especially when information is presented in outdated, un-searchable formats like traditional paper publications shelved inaccessibly in libraries. The Internet, initially designed as a packet-switching/sharing network to help researchers share data sets (it really was), now has capabilities far in excess of its initial design because of the onward march of technological progress. Using the technology of the Internet to present new free, open, public work represents a significant leap forward and must be embraced, as from the very beginning of the creative process it gets work published in an inclusive collaborative, participatory way. 
Sadly, earning a living from using the new methods provided at the limits of our technology needs further discovery and work.

You can help. Please begin by reading and enjoying!